Restricted Operators in Dashboards doc added (#3273)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/dashboards/dashboard-optimization.md

> ---

Reviewer: @JV0812 why are you including this page? As far as I know, this does not apply to v2 dashboards.

Author: There was a link in the **Restricted Operators in Dashboards** doc, which refers to this page. So, I have added this page for New dashboards too.

id: dashboard-optimization
title: Dashboard Optimization
sidebar_label: Dashboard Optimization
description: Learn more about the dashboard optimization to improve the efficiency of Dashboard searches.
---

Optimization improves the efficiency of Dashboard searches. 

Sumo automatically optimizes a dashboard panel if it loads continuously for five minutes. If you pause a query before five minutes has elapsed, and then resume it, the timer restarts.

When a query has loaded for five minutes without completing, Sumo creates a scheduled view for the query, and modifies the query to use that view. Queries that were created with a scheduled view are considered to be already optimized, so Sumo does not attempt additional optimization.

## Optimization icons

> The icon in the upper right corner of each Dashboard Panel shows the current optimization status of that Panel.

Reviewer 2: Unless you're referring to a UI element (like "Click **Panel**"), ok to leave this lowercase.

```suggestion
The icon in the upper right corner of each dashboard panel shows the current optimization status of that panel.
```

| Icon  | Description |
|:--|:--|
| ![icon_info.png](/img/dashboards/icon_info.png) | No optimization errors. Click the icon to display information about the Panel. |

> | ![icon_caution_25x23.png](/img/dashboards/icon_caution.png) | The Panel can’t be optimized. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ![icon_caution_25x23.png](/img/dashboards/icon_caution.png) | The panel can’t be optimized. |
```

## Optimization timeslice and time range requirements 

* **Timeslice**. The timeslice must be a factor or multiple of 15. For example:
   * If less than 15 minutes: 1m, 3m, 5m.
   * If greater than 15 minutes: 15m, 30m, 45m, 60m, 75m, and so on.
* **Timerange**. The time range on the dashboard panel must be at least 1 hour.

## Optimization limitations

There are some limitations on what types of queries can be optimized in an interactive dashboard.

In an aggregate query only, the following group by functions are supported:

* count
* min
* max
* sum
* avg

Before the first group by, only the following operators are supported:

* Extract
* Parse
* Json
* KeyValue
* Filter
* Where
* Fields
* Timeslice

> There is no restriction on the operators after the first group by. For example, you can add lookup after the first group by function, but not before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are no restrictions on the operators after the first group by. For example, you can add the `lookup` operator after the first group by function, but not before.
```

---
id: dashboard-optimization
title: Dashboard Optimization
sidebar_label: Dashboard Optimization
description: Learn more about the dashboard optimization to improve the efficiency of Dashboard searches.
---

Optimization improves the efficiency of Dashboard searches. 

Sumo automatically optimizes a dashboard panel if it loads continuously for five minutes. If you pause a query before five minutes has elapsed, and then resume it, the timer restarts.

When a query has loaded for five minutes without completing, Sumo creates a scheduled view for the query, and modifies the query to use that view. Queries that were created with a scheduled view are considered to be already optimized, so Sumo does not attempt additional optimization.

## Optimization icons

The icon in the upper right corner of each Dashboard Panel shows the current optimization status of that Panel.

| Icon  | Description |
|:--|:--|
| ![icon_info.png](/img/dashboards/icon_info.png) | No optimization errors. Click the icon to display information about the Panel. |
| ![icon_caution_25x23.png](/img/dashboards/icon_caution.png) | The Panel can’t be optimized. |

## Optimization timeslice and time range requirements 

> * Timeslice—The timeslice must be a factor or multiple of 15. For example:
> 
>   * If less than 15 minutes: 1m, 3m, 5m
>   * If greater than 15 minutes: 15m, 30m, 45m, 60m, 75m, and so on.
> 
> * Timerange—The time range on the dashboard panel must be at least 1 one hour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Timeslice—The timeslice must be a factor or multiple of 15. For example:
   * If less than 15 minutes: 1m, 3m, 5m
   * If greater than 15 minutes: 15m, 30m, 45m, 60m, 75m, and so on.
* Timerange—The time range on the dashboard panel must be at least 1 one hour.
```

## Optimization limitations

There are some limitations on what types of queries can be optimized in an interactive dashboard.

In an aggregate query only, the following group by functions are supported:

* count
* min
* max
* sum
* avg

Before the first group by, only the following operators are supported:

* Extract
* Parse
* Json
* KeyValue
* Filter
* Where
* Fields
* Timeslice

> There is no restriction on the operators after the first group by. For
> example, you can add lookup after the first group by function, but not
> before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no restriction on the operators after the first group by. For example, you can add lookup after the first group by function, but not before.
```
